The process begins with an attempt to match an applicant to the
program most preferred on that applicant’s rank order list.  If the
applicant cannot be matched to that first choice program, an attempt
is made to place the applicant into the second choice program, and
so on, until the applicant obtains a tentative match or all the
applicant’s choices on the ROL have been exhausted.

A tentative match means a program on the applicant’s ROL also ranked
that applicant and either:

the program has an unfilled position, in which case there is room
in the program to make a tentative match between the applicant and
program, or the program does not have an unfilled position, but the
applicant is more preferred by the program than another applicant
who already is tentatively matched to the program.  In that case,
the applicant who is less preferred by the program is removed to
make room for a tentative match with the more preferred applicant.
Matches are “tentative” because an applicant who is matched to a
program may be removed from that program to make room for an applicant
more preferred by the program.  When an applicant is removed from
a tentative match, an attempt is made to re-match that applicant,
starting from the top of the applicant’s ROL.  This process is
carried out for all applicants until each applicant has either been
tentatively matched to the most preferred choice possible or all
choices submitted by the applicant have been exhausted.

When the Match is complete, all tentative matches become final.
